and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2B marketing website and SEO tips
useful podcasts free goodies and more
want to give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email
so joining me today I've got Natalie
marcotillo which is the head of growth
over at navitic Natalie welcome to the
show how are we
I'm doing well today yeah it's a nice
beautiful day here in New York so can't
complain awesome we've got a rare bit of
sun in the southwest of the UK so I'm
also in a good mood and looking forward
to the topic today Natalie we're going
to be talking about a super actionable
one I hope how you can go plg product
like growth in just one week in seven
days so this should be very helpful very
useful very interesting for any SAS any
B2B software as a service companies that
are perhaps thinking of taking the leap
from maybe marketing lead or sales lead
and understanding if plg is worth it for
them and how they can move to that
motion in quite a quick manner
um so let's start with a very simple one
Nancy for anyone that's not heard of plg
what would be your definition of of what
it is
yeah I feel like the definition of
is very highly
high definition but feel free to your
own research
out there in my opinion is just leading
with your product
to get people excited get people into
your buying funnel versus only leading
with marketing or sales so basically any
way you can bring your product earlier
in the buying cycle so users have a
chance to try it out before they
definitely sign that contract or commit
nice yeah I like that I like the simple
snapshot and we can dive into the the
nooks and crannies of plg in various
ways you can go about it when we when we
go into the breakdown but
in terms of plg for companies
especially in the kind of B2B SAS space
a lot of companies when they're starting
out
to my knowledge anyway tend to go sales
LED so maybe they'll create an outbound
motion maybe they'll have a team of sdrs
or bdrs hitting the phones cold calling
Target prospects trying to generate
appointments
um perhaps I'll do social selling or
similar perhaps sort of cold email
um or maybe they'll go marketing-led
maybe they'll try and capture prospects
that are perhaps in Market searching
directly for their offer or comparing
offers using things like Google ads paid
search with paid review sites Etc
capture those High intent Ops and send
them to sales or maybe they'll do a mix
of sales lead maybe they'll do a mix of
marketing lead combine the two for a
juicy combo so with that all said why
should a SAS company especially think of
going down the plg route
it really matches how buyers want to buy
today so I always joke Amazon has fully
spoiled our buyers and think about your
own consumer world right like you're
used to getting a package in a day well
and these days for B2B you can barely
get a demo in a day if you're lucky
um we actually just put out a big Report
with chili Piper looking at the top 100
SAS companies and took solid took on
average two days just in response to a
demo request
and we didn't get back we didn't hear
back from 35 of the companies
which is pretty crazy these are five
percent that's mental
yeah like these are people saying hey I
want to buy your software and I'm sure
there are Arguments for qualification or
maybe just got lost lost in the email
somehow
but when you think about that these are
people who are actively showing interest
want to see yourself or in some capacity
but if you're just doing additional
sales admission there's no way for them
to explore more and so they're just
waiting around and might just drop off
interest so if you have no way of giving
them a little taste of your product or
letting them experience it before that
sales call they might just drop off and
that's that's Prospectors leaving on the
table
that's insane where can people go
naturally if they want to check out that
full report
yeah it's hosted on Chili Piper um I can
I can get the link but essentially it's
B2B buying reward no worries we can
always put a link in the comments in the
description once we're done that's all
good
mad so 35 didn't get back and yeah
that's that's some insane stats so why
why do you think that is like I mean
this has taken a bit of a rabbit hole
but why why are companies from your
experience like so poorer one getting
back to prospects and secondly like
what's what's the result here because
these are high intent people that want
to speak to sales team want to take a
look inside your offer and potentially
buy it
you have a few different theories um
very tactically it could be you know
email spamming right like if your bdrs
are just emailing people all day maybe
you are reaching out but it's not
getting to the end Prospect or we only
counted responses as phone calls because
I mean as emails because I don't answer
my phone to random calls I don't think a
lot of people do so maybe it's an
all-call Cadence where they didn't want
to end with just one email
but strategically I think it's more
because companies are more focused on
their own process
right we're so obsessed with optimizing
our own sales process and making sure
it's as efficient as possible which is
great but I think sometimes we forget
the human element of someone's asking
for your time like it's not too hard to
send a follow-up email just saying hey
maybe you're not a good fit maybe it
doesn't make sense now here are some
other resources or tools we recommend in
the meantime because that Prospect might
not be a good fit now but they could
always change companies and become a
great fit later
so what what's the answer here like what
what should companies be doing in your
opinion anyway
well not surprisingly I think some
aspect of prg helps here
um and you know it's it's fine if you
have a qualification process if
everyone's not a good fit I think one
just let them know like when we say we
didn't hear back from 35 we didn't hear
anything it wasn't like we just were
told you weren't qualified
but then to give them some sort of
self-serve options so if you do have
some sort of free trial or if you do
have an interactive demo which we'll get
into later if again even if they're not
a good fit now give them a way to learn
about your product and try it out so
then down the line they might be they
still know what your product does versus
being entirely clueless and never
hurting hearing from you
have you got any research thoughts or
stats around how many prospects when
they go to websites
don't convert because they don't see
what they want to see if that makes
sense and that could be a demo certainly
from a SAS perspective or live visuals
of your offer in motion
um because website conversion is such a
interesting topic from my opinion
because already solo episodes on it all
the time with kind of lesser known ways
to convert prospects build trust
resonate with target market so super
interesting in that kind of stuff
because there's as you know websites are
a constantly evolving thing there's
always things we can do around our
messaging around our offer around our
design around our copy to make small
tweaks to kind of build trust resonate
and convert idle prospects is there
anything you folks have done around kind
of knowing like why are the percentages
of people that do actually book a demo
or inquiry is so small and is it quite
often because they don't see what they
want to see or interesters know your
thoughts there
yeah I don't have data specifically on
why people don't convert what I do know
is I think we see about from a few
different research reports I've seen
about three to five percent of prospects
will convert on like a book a demo or
free trial CTA
my theory is it it's not that it's not
enticing it's just a lot to ask for
right like signing up for a call even
doing a free trial like we're all so
busy these days both those things are
going to take hours of our week that we
might just not have so one theory for me
could be it's just too much and we need
to give them a little more before they
commit to it yeah but we have seen with
interactive demos is they have about a
30 engagement rate so about one in three
people on a landing page will engage
with interactive demo which shows maybe
people just want again a little more
information before committing to that
full live sales call or if you have a
full plg motion before setting up that
entire free trial
got it
and yeah I think I think you're right I
think a lot of prospects are probably
skeptical because they know if they
click that speak to sales or book a demo
button
unless you're one of the 35 of those
companies that you talked about earlier
that a sales team with any with any kind
of sense is going to get onto it right
away whether it is booking time or the
calendar giving you a call or email so
maybe
I suppose that's a big part of it really
anxiety because knowing that that is a
big next step and the chances are our
sales reps going to be in touch pretty
quickly
um so suppose like you said having some
kind of Middle Ground
where you're not fully committing yet
but you're still kind of learning more
and seeing if it's a good fit for you I
suppose
yeah I think we've all been burned by we
see a product that looks amazing right
we do our research on it but the website
copies may be a little vague maybe we
get some idealized screenshots I'll say
that look great
and then you get into the actual first
demo after you've probably been
qualified by at least one bdr and you
realize like this is nothing like what I
thought it was the UI is very different
than what I'm seeing on the website it
doesn't accomplish my five main tasks so
I think we've all been there where we've
probably wasted again a few hours of our
week on products that just were never
going to be a good fit so I think we're
very hesitant now when we all have as
little time as ever
um yeah yeah and if you're saying like
stats like a third
a third of prospects are more likely to
view the live demo as opposed to request
to speak to sales that's pretty
significant right and if you're getting
a lot of traffic if you're sending a lot
of traffic through various sources to
your site that can I'd imagine have a
pretty high impact and in terms of so
let's let's get into the topic at hand
in terms of kind of moving to a product
like growth of plg motion
seven days just a week not a long not a
long space at a time like what what are
the first considerations that a company
should put into play
so I think I think the first thing is
figuring out whether or not it makes
sense for you to fully do this in-house
and you have the engineering resources
or staff to do it right and when we're
talking plg in this seven day sense
we're we're using my expanded definition
also including just ways for prospects
to get Hands-On from your website so the
first consideration is do you know do
you want to build that entire free trial
premium motion and do you have the
engineering bandwidth to do so because
I've seen a lot of companies are like we
need to go plg so they hack together a
free trial it's maybe not fully
supported and then don't have great
conversion numbers on that free trial
because it's kind of an afterthought
versus a full strategic
initiative
yeah
and
likewise I've heard horror stories where
kind of companies have switched to plg
they switched to free trial and then
gone back or it hasn't worked while
um
from everything I've heard like Po when
I think plg based and I think what
you're going to share with us is a bit
different is the classic get a 30-day
free trial where it's perhaps somewhat
limited to the premium tier or the pro
tier or the Enterprise level tier which
are all kind of more features more
detail better experience and like you
say you normally put in your details
your email address you'll get a 30-day
basic trial and then after that you'll
probably be putting some type of email
sequence or sales will reach out and
then they'll try and kind of push you
onto the the full tick as your
experience ends and usually it's quite a
small percentage of all those leads that
actually eventually convert into paid
members
um
so this is actually two-part I went a
bit off on tangent then but one is is
that the route we're talking about here
or we're talking about something
different and I suppose the second part
to it is
when is it when is this not a good fit
for are there any scenarios that you can
share where just go and pH plg for a SAS
company is just a terrible idea
yeah so not surprisingly not talking
about the exact use case you're
describing of the traditional 30-day
free trial in this case we're talking
about going theology in seven days I'm
talking more about what we do here at
Nevada interactive demos and I think
there are ways to do this maybe it's
through video just more accurate
screenshots but basically just ways to
let prospects get Hands-On with your
product before that live demo call so
for us interactive demos are basically
walk through experiences of your product
it clones the HTML and CSS so it looks
and feels like the actual application so
if you go to like if you go to our
website for example you can go and kind
of Click around the Nevada experience
but you don't need to give your email
you don't need to set anything up
basically that perfect end stage kind of
walk through and so we have a lot of
customers going back to your second
question of who is plg not a good fit
for we have a lot of customers who maybe
one don't have those engineering
resources as I mentioned earlier to
build out a whole free trial motion or
two just have a pretty complex product
that requires a good amount of setup to
see value so a lot of common customers
for us for like security fintech legal
Tech HR sales and marketing Tech but the
end state of a free trial requires a lot
of setup so maybe you need Integrations
maybe you need to import personal data
that you your admin might not feel
comfortable giving you and so really
they don't want to make the user do all
that work to see the aha moment so
instead through an interactive demo they
can just show the user up front hey if
you were to use our software this is
what it would look like everything is
set up so you don't have to do any work
so they can just again get an idea of
what they're signing up for versus being
entirely blind
got it got it and is there any ever a
situation where perhaps a SAS offer is I
don't know super high ticket or super
complex or something like that where
kind of a um
a free trial or live demo or something
like that it's just a terrible fit and
they should probably not not go down
that route they should stick to the
traditional speak to a sales engineer
mode
I think we've seen more of like your
product as an API right like you don't
really have a UI to show off then it
might not be the best fit but generally
even if you do have a more complex
product we've just seen or more
Enterprise customers break down and
create multiple interactive demos so
it's not supposed to be like a replica
of the entire demo it's really just a
small little sneak peek and they might
do it for different use cases personas
or features so it's not just this
overwhelmingly heavy product coming at
you
got it okay no fair enough so yeah like
like you're saying work out if you've
got the resources in-house to be able to
put someone together yourself or perhaps
consider a third-party company that can
help you together with building it out
um
once you've done that is it just a case
of let's build it together and a week
later we're good to go or their kind of
considerations once you've kind of had
that internal discussion and you know
what next step you want to take
definitely some considerations I think
as anything you know you're gonna have
to get some alignment internally but you
all want to figure out where you want to
promote this interactive demo so the
most common use case we see is on the
website as I mentioned before because
those High engagement numbers but maybe
you want to start by putting in some
email campaigns or testing and ads
before committing to putting on the
website another big consideration is
just what should I show in this
interactive demo I think a lot of
companies right especially as we talked
about more Enterprise complex products
they get a lot of fear of how do I
distill all my value down into what we
recommend is like a 10 to 15 Step demo
which is about 30 seconds to a minute
okay so really talking with your sales
team figuring out what are those High
ticket value moments of your product you
want to show and then just distilling
all that down and writing out kind of
the script for your interactive demo
that's usually some of the longest parts
sounds smart
cells cells you usually know what
customers are after right
when it comes to the the juicy questions
or what's usually requested to be seen
exactly they'll know for sure what are
those most important features and nice
thing is if you create a little script
or outline which we typically recommend
they'll be happy to give you some
feedback and critiques and be like nope
definitely show that maybe don't show
that yeah yeah that's a smart move got
it got it okay
um yeah so building it out I suppose
like you said they're putting together a
snapshot of what customers what
prospects typically want to see not
making it too lengthy it sounds like
just showing some of the core features
um in terms of is there any data capture
that we should do there with this are we
trying to get
prospects email or any further data and
then put them in a nurture sequence or
remarket to them
um or are we just going on the basis
that if prospects love it then they will
actually request to request a full demo
or request to speak to a sales engineer
um what's the thought process there
I think it's really dependent on each
company I usually say depend on your
goal right if your main goal is just
product education maybe you want higher
quality leads you want to make sure the
leads that do enter your sales funnel
know what they're signing up for and how
and kind of almost skipping that first
overview demo of hey this is just what
we do then I do recommend generally
ungating it because you want as many
people you're almost using it at the
filtering system right like you want to
make sure the best people are getting
through your sales team you can also
include ctas throughout interactive
demos so you can show them you know a
few features and this is what we
recommend and then they give them the
option hey either have you seen enough
book a live demo or keep going
got it
okay so it sounds like there's a few
ways you can play it
and perhaps having that CTA
part way through where prospects are
ready to to book the full demo they can
kind of leave their info I guess but
time on the sales reps calendar and then
proceed to that right of the next step
exactly and we do also see some
companies form gate it right if you're
you do have a more complex product or
you are trying to just generate more
leads in that case you know asking for
email up front you might get less people
going through the demo but you know
they're probably a little more committed
if they gave their email and then we've
seen companies actually refer to these
leads as product qualified leads similar
to how you'd hear companies talk about
free trial leads and so then nurturing
them the same as you would with the
product qualified lead sending them to
sales seeing if they need any help or
more information and we can't say those
are some of their highest quality leads
because again they actually know what
the product is before they sign up yeah
it makes sense makes sense are there any
big no-no's for this process naturally
in terms of things that you should
definitely avoid doing
yeah I think the biggest No-No is people
tend to think of these like tutorial
videos right so they want to show how to
set up the your product so they say
things like hey this is where you log in
now clicks this button next then click
this button next it's really not
supposed to be teaching or kind of how
to's instead it's supposed to be that
end State and showing you know this is
what is just the art of what's possible
really those value driven moments of you
know if you do the setup here's what
your dashboard could look like and look
at all these you know you could see
which one of your reps if you have a
dashboard like this are performing the
best and kind of get those insights
immediately versus a lot of people like
to take it like step one step two step
three and we recommend a little more the
value Focus language
got it so it sounds like it's more to
show the transformation
in terms of where you can start and like
where you can finish off and like impact
of results and that kind of stuff
exactly yeah if you use your product if
you or you've used our product this is
what you'll gain and this is the
benefits versus this is how you use our
product
yeah yeah yeah
nice okay yeah yeah it makes sense is
that any any anything else we need to
cover in terms of the actual kind of
implementation kind of pushing this this
live and setting up this prg motion
I think the only thing I forgot to
mention is the actual building within a
tool like Nevada or an actual
interactive demo platform so it is all
no code that's how we can say seven days
because it's not like a free trial where
you're gonna have to tap your engineers
and get on their Sprint cycle and you
know put in a request and six months
later have something come out it can be
entirely owned by the marketing team
so really once you have that script
built script built all you have to do is
go use our product to help clone your
application add on the little tool tips
and text boxes that walk you through the
product and publish it and then it's
live like a link similar to a video
got it nice
um yeah I mean we've recovered a quite
good ground in terms of kind of how this
works what the different types of
motions are would you say there's any
types of SAS companies where
they should perhaps get something in
place first before they look to do a
live
um demo perhaps they're fully sales lead
at the moment and they've maybe
neglected their website a bit
um is there something they should make
sure that's kind of set up and running
well before they just stick in an
interactive demo and then perhaps they
run some paid spend behind it and it
doesn't really have the impact that they
hope for
yeah I think number one is if you want
to like just first go start going a
little more product LED as I mentioned
the beginning I think a lot of companies
really like the really beautiful
kind of idealized versions of their
product which is useful
but doesn't give the prospect an actual
idea of what it is so maybe just you
know step number one start using real
Gifts of your product or
you know and maybe a nicer looking
screenshot something that actually shows
the product just things that prospects
can get familiar with the UI before they
jump on the call
got it yeah yeah to see an action
um in terms of website placement
like I know I've been on some sites and
they perhaps have the home page you've
got the hero top section before you
scroll
and I know more and more SAS sites have
got kind of Booker book a demo or see
the product in action or take a product
tour or view live demo and then the next
CTA might be speak to cell so you've got
that option any best practices in terms
of I guess where to position one of
these on your site in terms of both the
actual placement of the product
um and in terms of perhaps what you've
seen work well in terms of ctas to
actually make sure prospects are
motivated to take a look at the the
product in action
yeah the most common way we see
companies deploy this is as a secondary
CTA on the website so still keeping your
main CTA of book a demo or if you are
fully plg try it for free but then
including a secondary CTA usually on the
home page just next the main one that is
you know take a tour see it in action
those are usually the two most common
copies is take a tour or see it in
action
and then if you are going to embed it
that's another option some companies do
want to live on the actual website
itself again if you go to our website
you'll see it's embedded what we see is
that if it's above the fold or higher up
on the page it has about 3x the
engagement as those really low down on
the fold so you do want to make sure if
you do embed it make sure to keep it
higher up or else people won't really
see it yeah yeah yeah it makes sense
makes sense
um and aside from any other tips in
terms of kind of driving prospects to
two product tours or um actually
anything you've seen work well when it
comes to actually perhaps retargeting
prospects that have taken a a live demo
or a product tour
um and what any nice use cases that
you've perhaps seen in action
yeah I think the retargeting is a big
one so if someone goes through your
interactive product demo there's two
options right like you can kind of score
them like any other lead they go through
it but maybe only make it through one or
two steps only there for a little bit
you could retarget them on Google ad
LinkedIn ads and try to get them to get
back into the product tour to see the
whole thing maybe show them a new
feature or just new offer to get them
excited
if they have gone through the entire
tour what we see a lot of teams do is
direct those leads again right to sales
so if someone's gone to the whole thing
maybe they didn't book a demo you know
set up a slack notification alerting the
sales team hey this is a high intent
Prospect like let's go reach out to them
directly and try to get live time on
their calendar
yeah I'd imagine kind of LinkedIn ads
could work super well in terms of
retargeting these prospects like if you
can see that they've spent like five
minutes on a product demo or more
interacting on your site and then you
feed them I don't know useful case
studies tips ideas use cases and all
that stuff like I'd imagine quite a lot
of those come back in my Booker
interactive demo over time when it's
done right
exactly yeah because again you know that
they're familiar so you kind of can
start giving them some more on the final
education like you said case studies
um some more exact use cases because at
this point they already know what you do
and they're probably in a little bit of
a buying mindset if they want through
your entire product
awesome Natalie really enjoyed the
conversation thanks very much for for
sharing best practices around moving to
a swift plg motion and how to make
product interactive demos work on your
site with that please do share more
about everyone tuning in can learn more
about yourself your company and anything
else you'd like to send our audience to
yeah so to learn more about me you know
not surprisingly mom LinkedIn I do try
to post about interactive demos
different use cases how we're seeing our
customers use them so they check me out
there if you want to talk more about
interactive demos also happy to chat if
you want to learn more about Nevada go
to our website we do have an interactive
demo on our website so you can play
around with the tool as well as we have
a customer showcase Gallery so if you
want to see some house and other SAS
companies are using interactive demos
you can go there
nice and for all of those links over in
the show notes at business growth dot
marketing and with that I want to thank
you once again for coming on the show
Natalie
yeah thanks so much for having me no
worries at all and as always if you
enjoyed today's episode of quick rating
or review on your podcast channel is
appreciated or if you're on YouTube a
quick subscribe goes a long way and with
that we'll catch you on the next one for
more no BS B2 marketing tips to grow
your business and grow your Revenue
we'll catch you soon